store, compact, bucket: schedule block deletion by adding deletion-mark.json (#2136)
thanos-io/thanos: docs/components/compact.md

## Groups

> The compactor groups blocks using the external*labels added by the Prometheus who produced the block.

Reviewer: Those changes are weird.. do we need them?

Author: was added by vscode formatting, have reverted them

The labels must be both \_unique* and _persistent_ across different Prometheus instances.

By _unique_, we mean that the set of labels in a Prometheus instance must be different from all other sets of labels of
your Prometheus instances, so that the compactor will be able to group blocks by Prometheus instance.

By _persistent_, we mean that one Prometheus instance must keep the same labels if it restarts, so that the compactor will keep
compacting blocks from an instance even when a Prometheus instance goes down for some time.

## Block Deletion

Depending on the Object Storage provider like S3, GCS, cepth hdfs etc; the storage can be strongly consistent or eventually consistent. This poses a challenge to co-ordinate readers and writers of the block.

> Since there are no consistency guarantees provided by Object Storage provider, we have to make sure that we have a consistent lock-free way of dealing with Object Storage irrespective of the choice of object storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since there are no consistency guarantees provided by some Object Storage provider, we have to make sure that we have a consistent lock-free way of dealing with Object Storage irrespective of the choice of object storage.
```

Author: sure done

By _persistent_, we mean that one Prometheus instance must keep the same labels if it restarts, so that the compactor will keep
compacting blocks from an instance even when a Prometheus instance goes down for some time.

## Block Deletion

> Depending on the Object Storage provider like S3, GCS, cepth hdfs etc; the storage can be strongly consistent or eventually consistent. This poses a challenge to co-ordinate readers and writers of the block.

Reviewer: What is `cepth`? (: 

```suggestion
Depending on the Object Storage provider like S3, GCS, Ceph etc; the storage can be strongly consistent or eventually consistent. This poses a challenge to co-ordinate readers and writers of the block.
```

HDFS is not an object storage.

Reviewer: Sorry for being super picky here, but I hope you can learn from that (for example, to not be picky xD), but:

`the storage can be strongly consistent or eventually consistent.` is not technically true. It can be sometimes never consistent in failure scenarios ;p

Reviewer: Maybe let's put it `we can divide those storages into strongly or eventually consistent.

Author: i have made this change now. thanks for the suggestion.

> Since there are no consistency guarantees provided by some Object Storage providers, we have to make sure that we have a consistent lock-free way of dealing with Object Storage irrespective of the choice of object storage.

Reviewer: :+1:

Author: 🤗

> In order to achieve this co-ordination, blocks are not deleted directly. Instead, blocks are marked for deletion by uploading

Reviewer: well explained

Author: 🤗

## Flags

> [embedmd]: # "flags/compact.txt $"

Reviewer: Can we also add something about deletions?

Reviewer: (e.g how blocks are deleted)

Author: will add that after we finalise where to upload the file, whether it should be in block or outside block
